# The Constitution of Makerspace
--- 
## Preface
- Since the birth of the Internet, it's getting more frequently that ideas of innovation clash.What's more, the opening and sharing of the resources have been gaining more and more attentions. People with sharing spirits spontaneously have been gathering toghether, thus sprung up the Makerspace.
(这一段的行文欠正式，当然如果要特意采用geek的欢脱风格那也可以，否则还是用正式一些的行文吧)
(修改建议)Since the birth of Internet, the tendency toward the frequent collision innovative ideas occurring, openness and sharing of resources valued and people with the faith of equality gathered rises more vigorously than ever, thus sprung up the Makerspace.

- We truly believe that the innovation, sharing and co-operation idea of the Makerspace will significantly affect the thinking mode of human beings.While it is in the time of Trans-Disciplinary System Integration Design Challenge, we, the editors of this constitution, formulated it in Tsinghua University.
(有几个用词词的风格比较偏向于演说，整体不错)
(修改建议)We share the same belief that that the innovation, sharing and co-operation idea of the Makerspace will significantly affect the thinking mode of human beings. While it is in the time of Trans-Disciplinary System Integration Design Challenge, we, the editors of this constitution, formulated the Constitution in Tsinghua University.

- It is our indeed expectations that this constitution shall conduct as the meta-constitution to provide reference to all Makerspaces.


## Article. I.  General Principle

### Section. 1.

The Makerspaces' purpose is:
(尽量少用’s)
(修改建议)The purpose of Makerspaces is:

- To realize creative value, carry forward the spirit of innovation, spread  ideas of open source.
(我个人建议不要realize因为在这个位置作“意识”解也很合理)
(修改建议)To actualize value of creativity, carry forward the spirit of innovation, spread  ideas of open source.

- With other makers and creating organization concentric, to promote world creating career development.
(略显单薄)
(修改建议)Resolving to combine the efforts together with other makers and creating organization concentric, to promote world creating career development.

### Section. 2.

To achieve the goal, members shall obey  the following principles:
(有更正式的说法)
(修改建议)To achieve the goal, members shall act in accordance with the following principles:

- all members are equal, enjoy equal rights in the use of resources.
(有更正式的说法)
(修改建议)all members are equal, enjoy equal rights in the access to resources.

- each member should fulfill its obligations according to the constitution, to ensure the rights and interests of all members.
- should do its best to help  members of  the Makerspace in accordance with the constitution.
(这里只是一个建议)
(修改建议)The members shall try assisting the provisions taken by the passenger space which is acted in accordance with the constitution.
- Products made by using the open source shouldn’t be closed source.
(希望一直保持members的主语)
(修改建议)Members shall not develop closed-source techniques on the basis of open-source techniques provided.

### Section. 3.

- Makerspace  is a non-profit organization consisting of members、 online spaces and entities under the line .

### Section. 4.

- The project is the key of Makerspace.
(用词可以商榷)
(修改建议)
Project shall be the core of Makerspace.

## Article. II. Members

### Section. 1. the Method of Attendance and the Identity Authentication
- All the Citizens could apply to join the Mackerspace by using his or her ID number. The security department will be in charge of the verification.
- Members have the right to join or quit the Mackerspace freely.
- Before finishing the submition, the applier need to accept the disclaimer.

### Section. 2. the Right of the Members
- Members shall possess My Space on the digital platform we provide.
- Members could share open-sourced  products and describe the function of them in the My Space. The Mackerspace would  open those desciptions.
- Members could use My Space to search the potential companions.
- Members could acquire the products which have not been signed the Creative Commons license by contact the relevant members and sign agreement.
- Members could acquire the open-sourced products shared by the Makerspace from the digital platform. 
- Members could participate the offline activities the Makerspace organizes, if sign up in advance.
- Members could apply to use the offline resource.

### Section. 3. the Duty of the Members
- Members shall pay the fee.
- The product the members made from the open-sourced products the platform provide must be shared.
- Any profit made from the product ditto should be shared according to the agreement.
- Members shall protect the online and offline resources of the Mackerspace. 

## Article. III. Digital Space
### Section. 1. the Composition of Digital Space
1.The digital space shall be the website of MakerSpace that is composed of front end and back end.
2.The front end of website includes:

- makers' MySpace, which shall be used to share makers' interests and ideas, finished and ongoing projects;

-  the search engine of information database, which shall be used to search a particular idea,  open-source product or project.

3.The back end of website includes:

- a database, which stores and publishes the open-source products of all members by sort, including but not limited to source codes, hardware programs and the procedures of projects.

- search engine algorithm

### Section 2. The Functions of the Digital Space
The digital space is primary used for the confirmation and management of members’ digital ID, the record and demonstration of projects and communications of members.
### Section 3. The Agreements of the Digital Space
1.The principle of the agreements: 
The agreements are based on advocating open sources and protecting the legal rights of the original authors.
2.The declaration of copyrights for original authors: 

- Member of the Maker Union can set one of the following license protocols:
(1)CC BY
(2)CC BY-SA 
(3)CC-BY-ND
(4)CC-BY-NC
(5)CC BY-NC-SA
(6)CC BY-NC-ND

- Explanations for BY, SA, ND and NC:
(1)BY: This license lets others distribute, remix, tweak, and build upon your work, even commercially, as long as they credit you for the original creation. This is the most accommodating of licenses offered. Recommended for maximum dissemination and use of licensed materials.
(2)SA: This license is often compared to “copyleft” free and open source software licenses. All new works based on yours will carry the same license, so any derivatives will also allow commercial use. This is the license used by Wikipedia, and is recommended for materials that would benefit from incorporating content from Wikipedia and similarly licensed projects.
(3)ND: This license allows for redistribution, commercial and non-commercial, as long as it is passed along unchanged and in whole, with credit to you.
(4)NC: This license lets others remix, tweak, and build upon your work non-commercially, and although their new works must also acknowledge you and be non-commercial, they don’t have to license their derivative works on the same terms.

3.Apache License based on Maker Space:
The users of open-sourced products shall use the Apache License developed by The Apache Software Foundation as a principal.
4.License for the commercialization of open-sourced products:
When the author of the open-sourced products set them as CC BY, CC BY-SA or CC BY-ND for license protocols, they shall declare their interest for their products based on the following norms:

- The norm modifies: The original author shall sign the Apache License based on Maker Space; The modified codes or files are possessed by the user when they changed them; The percentage of the interest declaration shall not be bigger than the percentage of the data stream in the project.

- The author can claim his interest on each code or file separately, once the claim is published it shall not be changed. Once the authorization is distributed shall not be repealed.



## Article. IV. Offline Substance
### Section. 1. the Composition of Offline Substance
- The offline Substance shall be composed of such physical space as makers' workroom. 

### Section. 2. Service Provided by Offline Substance
The offline substance shall provide members with such services as: 
- offering necessary resources of the projects,
- a communication environment,
- inviting experts to give lectures, 
- and building a display zone to promote maker culture.

### Section. 3. How to Use Offline Substance 
- Members should apply for using workroom or tools on the digital space in advance. 

## Article V Project
### Launching a project:
Members shall upload the application to the hakerspace.The project is to be launched formally only
when the Department of Project pass it.The application shall be filed on record for reference.
A project shall be shared on our digital platform after launched formally.
### Meeting:
If there is many makers in one project,meetings are necessary.And the record of the meeting should
be uploaded to the digital platform.The record shall follow the style listed in the appendix.
### Procedure: 
In the procedure,records of the procedure are necessary,which records shall follow the style listed in the appendix.The records shall be uploaded to the digital platform.
### Finishing a project.
When a project is finished or abolished,application shall be upload.And the Department of Project 
shall give an assess.

## Article VI Project  Foreign exchange
### Exchanging a project
#### Principle:
1. Projects pulled from other hakerspace shall be pushed to our digital platform .
2. Projects pushed to other platform will be followed by our hakerspace to ensure that the intellectual 
property of our members will not be violated.

#### Procedure:
Applicating, finishing , accessing and pushing is necessary when pulling project from other  hakerspace.
### Sharing of hardware resources
When members of our hakerspace want to use facilities of other hakerspaces ,application should be 
upload to our digital platform and our hakerspace will apply to that hakerspace.

## Article. VII. Institutions and Mechanisms

### Section. 1. Institutions

#### Department of Project

- Department of project is responsible for managing all the projects of makerspace.Including application of  the projects , and evaluation of projects.
 
#### Department of Justice
- Department of Justiceis responsible for managing legal issues concerning to our space；Users can protect their rights by this department.

#### Department of Security
- Department of securityshould make sure the safety of makers' information and our space's property.  

#### Department of Maintaining
- Department of maintaining is in charge of keeping the website stability.

#### Department of Finance
- Manage the fund-raising affair and the collection of membership fee and make sure to meet the financial needs of the platform.
#### Department of Foreign Exchange
- THey are responsible for cooperation with other makerspace.

### Section. 2. Mechanisms
#### Incentive mechanisms
- Members who performes well will get prizes  records and get better treatment
- Priject which has good infuluence will get some finance prizes.  

#### Punishment mechanism
- Take suitable measures for against the law of our makerspace.
- Transferring makers who are against  the state constitution and law to the judiciary.
- In particular,makers who are against the rights of the author will lose his digital identity

#### Constitution correction mechanism
- Departments above should have  Periodic meetings. 
- The constitution changing process and results should be visible for everyone.
- Create customer may dismiss all amendments made through collective voting management ..
- If most of makers are against the changes of the departments meeting results, the changes will be refused.

## Article. VIII. Appendix
- Our constitution is the open-sourced constitution. Any individual or organization shall use or modify it out of the Mackerspace, according to the BY-NC-SA-sharing license.

P.S.The open-soured products means the knowledge product codes, graphic etc.


