#The Constitution of Hackerspace
 
##Article I  General Principle

Section 1

The hackerspaces purpose is:

- to realize creative value, carry forward the spirit of innovation, spread  ideas of open source.
With other makers and creating organization concentric, promote world creating career development.

Section 2

To achieve the goal, members shall obey  the following principles:
- all members are equal, enjoy equal rights in the use of resources.
- each member should fulfill its obligations according to the constitution, to ensure the rights and interests of all members.
-  should do its best to help  members of  the hackerspace in accordance with the constitution .
- products made by using the open source shouldn’t be closed source.

Section 3

Hackerspace  is a non-profit organization consisting of online spaces, entities under the line and members.

Section 4

The project is the key of hackerspace.













Chong charter passenger space
Preface
序言

(这段中文没有)(Implement innovation and sharing, collaborative spirit, I hit off in this manifesto:)

互联网诞生以来，创新思想的碰撞愈发频繁，资源的开放与分享愈发受重视，拥有共享精神的人们聚集起来，创客组织破土而出，形成创客空间。

** (建议)Since the birth of Internet, the tendency toward the frequent collision innovative ideas occurring, openness and sharing of resources valued and people with the faith of equality gathered rises more vigorously than ever, which promote the emerging of customer organizations and the foundation of record passenger space.

Since the birth of the Internet, more frequent collisions innovative ideas, each
Class, a customer organization emerged, forming a record passenger space.
Therefore, the development of the present Charter, the Charter as an element, providing a model for all established record passenger space.

Since the birth of the Internet, more frequent collisions innovative ideas, openness and sharing of resources increasingly valued, people have gathered together the spirit of equality, a customer organization emerged, forming a record passenger space.
Since the birth of Internet, the tendency toward the frequent collision innovative ideas occurring, openness and sharing of resources valued and people with the faith of equality gathered rises more vigorously than ever, which promote the emerging of customer organizations and the foundation of record passenger space.

我们深信，创客空间创新、分享、协作的理念将深刻影响人类的思维方式。借二〇一五年跨学科系统集成设计挑战的机会，我们于清华大学制订本宪章。

We are convinced that creating passenger space sharing, collaboration and innovative ideas are the future of information technology. So by 2015 XLP activities, we have developed this Charter Tsinghua University. We hope that as the yuan charter charter can provide a reference for all established record passenger space.

** (建议)We share the same belief that creating passenger space sharing, collaboration and innovative ideas shall be the future tendency of information technology. So by 2015 XLP activities, we have developed this Charter Tsinghua University. We hope that as the yuan charter charter can provide a reference for all established record passenger space.

我们希望本宪章可以作为元宪章，为所有创客空间提供参考。

(以下是我在之前文件中一番大改之后的版本)
Article I General Provisions
Article

The Purposes of Passenger Space is:
- Actualizing the value of creativity, promoting the spirit of innovation, dissemination of ideas open source.
- With other organizations to create customer and create customer concentric, pushing off the world record career development.
- (替换上句)Resolving to combine the efforts together with other create customers and create customer concentrics, promoting the world record career development.
前半句还有一个问题是concentric不是一个名词，不过我担心这是你们的统一用法就没改，高亮是后面写push off的同学请自行百度，我没见过这个表述以为你百度翻译出来的，结果百度之后发现……

Article

To achieve this objective, the members shall act in accordance with the following principles:
(替换)And for these ends, the member shall act in accordance with the following principles:
用objective的同学也请自行百度
- The members are equal and have equal rights to access to resources.
- (本句完全不通且逻辑有误不知道如何改)Members to fulfill their obligations under the present Charter are responsible to ensure that the interests of all members.
- Each member of the passenger space for creating provisions under the present Charter to take action, should make every effort to assist.
- (替换上句)The members shall try assistingg the proviosions taken by the pessenger space that  
- Each member of the agreement made by the open source and closed source products can not.
